NARRATOR: THE GLOBALIZATION
OF THE WORLD'S ECONOMY
HAS BROUGHT WITH IT
THE LARGEST MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE
IN THE HISTORY OF MODERN TIMES.
EVERYWHERE,
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
ARE ON THEIR WAY
TO SOMEWHERE NEW.
NO WALL OR BARRIER IS STRONG
ENOUGH TO STOP MIGRANTS
AS THEY CROSS
INTERNATIONAL BORDERS
ON A JOURNEY
TO WHERE THE ACTION IS:
GLOBAL CITIES.
NARRATOR:
LONDON, 1888.
THE BRITISH EMPIRE
LOOKS AS ENDURING,
DEPENDABLE AND SOLID
AS THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
AND LONDON IS THE WORLD'S
FINANCIAL CAPITAL,
ATTRACTING INVESTORS AND
ENTREPRENEURS LIKE A MAGNET.
LONDON IS ALSO ATTRACTING
THOUSANDS OF IMMIGRANTS
IN SEARCH OF GOOD WAGES,
A BETTER FUTURE,
OR FREEDOM.
BUT IT TOOK A SERIES OF
VICIOUS AND GRUESOME MURDERS
TO BRING TO THE
PUBLIC CONSCIOUSNESS
THE HARSH POVERTY
OF IMMIGRANT LIFE
IN THE HEART OF
THE IMPERIAL CAPITAL ITSELF.
200,000 IMMIGRANTS LIVED
IN THE SLUMS OF WHITECHAPEL,
A LONDON NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE SCENE OF THE CRIMES
OF THE FIRST
BRITISH SERIAL KILLER:
JACK THE RIPPER.
TODAY, 80% OF THE PEOPLE
IN WHITECHAPEL ARE IMMIGRANTS.
AND "JACK THE RIPPER WALKS"
AROUNDWHITECHAPEL
HAVE BECOME STANDARD PART
OF THE LONDON EXPERIENCE
FOR MANY TOURISTS.
AND FOR THOSE WHO PROUDLY
CALL THEMSELVES LONDONERS
THE LEGEND OF JACK THE RIPPER
IS NOW PART OF
THEIR CULTURAL HERITAGE.
OH, JACK THE RIPPER. YEAH,
OF COURSE, OF ALDGATE, YES. YES.
HE KILLED PROSTITUTES
ALL AROUND THAT AREA, YEAH.
NARRATOR: BUT FOR MOST OF THE
NEW IMMIGRANTS OF WHITECHAPEL,
THE LEGEND OF JACK THE RIPPER
IS AS FOREIGN AS MANY
OTHER BRITISH TRADITIONS.
FEMALE INTERVIEWER: DO YOU KNOW
WHO JACK THE RIPPER IS?
JACK THE RIPPER?
WHO IS JACK THE RIPPER?
YES! HE LIVES AROUND HERE.
OF COURSE
I KNOW WHO JACK THE RIPPER IS.
HE'S A RAP SINGER.
NARRATOR:
THE RACIAL AND RELIGIOUS
MULTI-DIMENSION OF LONDON TODAY
IS MAKING MANY PEOPLE CONCERNED
THAT THE BRITISH WAY OF LIFE
IS BEING ECLIPSED BY
MOSTLY NON-WHITE IMMIGRANTS
WHO DRESS DIFFERENTLY,
COOK DIFFERENTLY
AND PRAY DIFFERENTLY
FROM THE ANGLO-SAXON MAJORITY.
PEOPLE WHO DECIDE TO
LIVE IN ANY OTHER COUNTRY
THAN WHERE THEY WERE BORN
SHOULD INTEGRATE AND ASSIMILATE
INTO THE COUNTRY IN WHICH
THEY HAVE CHOSEN TO LIVE.
FEMALE INTERVIEWER: I SEE
SO MANY CULTURES AND RACES HERE
AND I OFTEN WONDER,
WHOSE COUNTRY IS THIS, ANYWAY?
THAT'S RIGHT. THAT'S RIGHT.
I'M A WIDOW FROM THE LAST WAR...
AND...
MY HUSBAND DIDN'T FIGHT
FOR WHAT'S GOING ON
IN THIS COUNTRY NOW.
THAT'S HOW I FEEL.
WELL, YES, BUT I MEAN,
IF YOU TURN TO
AN ASIAN OR A WEST INDIAN,
AND YOU ASK THEM, YOU KNOW,
WHAT NATIONALITY THEY ARE,
THEY TELL YOU
THEY'RE BRITISH.
LOOK, I'VE BEEN HERE 30 YEARS.
I DESERVE IT.
I DESERVE TO BE BRITISH.
JUST LIKE THESE, BRITISH.
[POLICE SIRENS BLARING]
NARRATOR:
WHO IS BRITISH TODAY,
IS A QUESTION THAT SEEMS TO
BE TEARING COMMUNITIES APART.
AND RECENT VIOLENT RACIAL RIOTS
IN SEVERAL BRITISH CITIES
HAVE SHOCKED MANY PEOPLE
BY THE DEPTH OF POLARIZATION
BETWEEN THE ANGLO-SAXON
MAJORITY AND ETHNIC MINORITIES.
ALTHOUGH BRITISH
POLITICIANS HAVE TRIED
TO RELEGATE IMMIGRATION
TO THE MARGINS OF POLITICS
IT KEEPS CREEPING BACK
TO THE CENTER,
WITH EXTREMIST GROUPS
MAKING POLITICAL CAPITAL
FROM FEAR OF IMMIGRANTS
AND TURNING RACIAL HATRED
INTO VOTES.
THE LAST TWO OR THREE YEARS,
PEOPLE HAVE SAID,
"WE'VE HAD ENOUGH."
OUR VOTES HAVE GONE UP.
WE'VE COME FROM NOWHERE
TO GET SIZEABLE VOTES NOW.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL PARTY IS
BECOMING MORE MAINSTREAM NOW.
IT'S BECOMING--
IT'S BREAKING OUT
OF THE FRINGES NOW,
BECAUSE WE'RE STRIKING A NERVE
WITH BRITISH VOTERS.
WE BELIEVE THAT OTHER PARTIES--
I BELIEVE THAT OTHER PARTIES
HAVE LET THIS PEOPLE DOWN.
ONLY THE BRITISH NATIONAL PARTY
HAS STRONGER POLICIES
ON IMMIGRATION.
THERE ISN'T
THE SLIGHTEST EVIDENCE
THAT THE EXTREME
NATIONAL PARTIES
ARE ACTUALLY GAINING
IN THE UNITED KINGDOM.
THEY HAVE GAINED
IN OTHER COUNTRIES IN EUROPE,
BUT HERE IN THE U.K.
THEY CONTINUE TO HAVE
AN INCREDIBLY MARGINAL IMPACT.
NARRATOR:
DESPITE THE MAINSTREAM PARTIES'
OPTIMISTIC VIEWS
ON POLARIZED POLITICS,
MOUNTING RACIAL TENSION
LEFT ITS MENACING IMPRINT
ON THE BALLOT BOX
IN THE LAST GENERAL ELECTION,
WHERE THE EXTREME RIGHT
BRITISH NATIONAL PARTY,
THE B.N.P.,
GAINED A SERIES
OF REMARKABLE RESULTS
IN MANY AREAS OF LONDON.
MAHMUD AL-RASHID: YOU KNOW,
ONE WONDERS WHAT IT IS
ABOUT BRITISH SOCIETY
AND BRITISH PEOPLE
THAT MAY LEAD THEM TO VOTE FOR
AN ORGANIZATION LIKE THE B.N.P.
SO IT IS A BIT CONCERNING
FOR US.
AND NOT JUST FOR MUSLIMS, BUT
I THINK FOR SOCIETY IN GENERAL.
WELL, THERE IS THE...
BRITISH NATIONAL PARTY.
THAT IS BRITISH.
SO, LIKE THE NAZIS,
THEY NEVER LEFT.
THEY JUST CHANGED THE NAME.
IT'S THE SAME PEOPLE.
...BRITISH?
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN BRITISH.
NARRATOR:
EXTENSIVE STREET INTERVIEWS
THROUGHOUT LONDON
REVEALED THE POTENTIAL
FOR SEVERE POLITICAL
AND SOCIAL CONFLICTS
IN WHICH IMMIGRATION ISSUES
ARE LIKELY TO BE
IN THE CENTER OF THE STORM.
TODAY, A FULL THIRD
OF LONDON'S
NINE MILLION INHABITANTS
ARE NON-ANGLO-SAXON.
BECAUSE OF A LOW BIRTHRATE
AND AN AGEING POPULATION,
TO HELP FUEL
ITS ECONOMIC GROWTH
AND FACE THE NEW CHALLENGES
OF GLOBALIZATION,
LONDON NEEDS SKILLED AND
UNSKILLED FOREIGN MANPOWER.
WE'RE NOT JUST
OPENING THE DOORS.
INSTEAD OF HAVING
AN UNMANAGED SYSTEM
OF ILLEGAL MIGRATION,
WE'LL HAVE A MANAGED SYSTEM
OF LEGAL MIGRATION.
THAT, I THINK, IS THE THEORY.
SO, THAT'S ALL, I THINK--
MY UNDERSTANDING OF IT IS THAT
THEY WILL ACTUALLY
TRY AND LOOK AT
LABOR FORCE,
LABOR MARKET REQUIREMENTS
AND JUDGE HOW MANY PEOPLE
ARE NEEDED IN THE ECONOMY.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE HAVE ENOUGH SKILLED WORKERS,
ENOUGH TALENT, WITHIN
THE NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE.
YOU KNOW,
WE ARE SHORT OF DOCTORS,
WE'RE SHORT OF TEACHERS,
WE ARE SHORT OF SKILLED NURSES,
YOU KNOW,
PROPER QUALIFIED NURSES.
SO OBVIOUSLY,
WE NEED THE TALENT--
WELL-EDUCATED TEACHERS
AND NURSES AND DOCTORS
AND ALL THE I.T. SPECIALISTS.
MICHAEL MARCH:
WE ARE INTERESTED IN SKILLS,
AND IT IS AS SIMPLE AS THAT.
AND IF THOSE SKILLS
COME FROM PEOPLE
WHO ARE NOT BRITISH,
FINE.
IF THEY COME FROM PEOPLE
WHO ARE NOT EUROPEANS, FINE.
WE SIMPLY WANT TO HAVE THE MIX--
THE RIGHT MIX OF SKILLS
THAT WILL ENABLE THIS COMPANY
TO PROSPER.
NARRATOR: THIS PRAGMATIC
APPROACH TO MANPOWER NEEDS
SEEMS TO BE WORKING FOR THE
LONDON CLEARING HOUSE, L.C.H.
LOCATED IN THE HEART OF
LONDON'S FINANCIAL DISTRICT,
L.C.H. CLEARS AN ASTONISHING
160 TRILLION DOLLARS
WORTH OF BUSINESS A YEAR,
HANDLING, PROCESSING
AND GUARANTEEING
MANY OF THE TRADES
IN LONDON'S STOCK MARKETS.
PLACES WILL REMAIN COMPETITIVE,
PROVIDED THAT THEY GIVE
THE BEST VALUE FOR MONEY,
PROVIDED THAT THEY ARE
INTERESTING PLACES
TO DEVELOP NEW BUSINESS MODELS
AND NEW BUSINESS CAPABILITY IN,
AND PROVIDED THAT
THERE IS THE TECHNOLOGY
TO TRANSMIT THAT INFORMATION
ON A WORLDWIDE BASIS.
NARRATOR: IN ORDER
TO FACE GLOBALIZATION,
LONDON HAS WILLINGLY
EMBRACED TECHNOLOGY.
OF THE UNITED KINGDOM'S
ENTIRE INVESTMENT
IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS
INFRASTRUCTURE,
25% IS UNDERNEATH THE
SQUARE MILE OF WHAT'S CALLED
"THE CITY"--
A POWERFUL FINANCIAL HUB
WHERE MORE THAN A HALF MILLION
PEOPLE FROM ALL NATIONALITIES
COME TO WORK EVERY DAY.
CLARK:
I'M NOT SURE WHETHER OR NOT
PEOPLE'S ACCESS OR OTHERWISE
TO THE LABOR MARKET
SHOULD BE DETERMINED ENTIRELY
BY BUSINESSMEN.
I'M NOT SURE THAT
ALL OF OUR POLICIES
HAVE TO BE DETERMINED
BY BUSINESS NEEDS.
I THINK THAT SOUNDS
VERY MUCH TO ME LIKE
WHAT YOU WOULD EXPECT
A TRADE UNIONIST TO SAY.
IT'S ALL THE FAULT
OF THE BOSSES.
MY PARTY TAKES THE VIEW
FIRST OF ALL
THAT RACISM IS ABHORRENT.
SECONDLY,
THAT BRITAIN HISTORICALLY
HAS ALWAYS BEEN A COUNTRY
WHICH RENEWED ITSELF
WITH NEW IMMIGRANTS
FROM NEW COUNTRIES.
NARRATOR: THE RACIAL
AND CULTURAL MIX
OF PRESENT-DAY LONDON CERTAINLY
REFLECTS ITS IMMIGRANT HISTORY.
BUT AS ANY LONDONER
WILL TELL YOU
THEIR MONGREL CITY
IS STILL STRUGGLING
TO FIND A COMMON IDENTITY.
WELL,
IT'S THE BRITISH WAY OF LIFE.
I DON'T REALLY KNOW.
I DON'T REALLY CARE.
FOR ME, I THINK IT IS
HAVING A SENSE OF HUMOR,
WHICH WE HAVE.
THE SATIRE WHICH EXISTS.
THE...
THE FREEDOM WHICH WE HAVE.
THE ABILITY TO DISCUSS OPENLY,
TO BE CRITICAL,
BUT TO BE ABLE TO ALSO
TAKE CRITICISM AS WELL.
INTERVIEWER: DO YOU THINK
THERE IS SUCH A THING
AS THE BRITISH WAY OF LIFE?
UH...
NO, NOT REALLY.
NOT ANYMORE.
NOTHING NOW. [LAUGHS]
THE BRITISH WAY OF LIFE
IS TO BE A GOOD,
UPHOLDING CITIZEN, I SUPPOSE.
NARRATOR:
MOST SECOND OR THIRD GENERATION
ETHNIC MINORITY LONDONERS
EXHIBIT A DEEP SENSE
OF BELONGING TO BRITAIN.
HOWEVER, SPEAKING ENGLISH
AND INTEGRATING
DOES NOT SEEM TO PREVENT
DIFFERENT TREATMENT
DUE TO RACIAL OR
RELIGIOUS DIFFERENCES.
FEMALE INTERVIEWER: YOU LOOK
DIFFERENT, YOU ARE DIFFERENT.
HAVE YOU EVER ENCOUNTERED
DISCRIMINATION?
AH, IT'S EVERYWHERE.
LIKE LOOKING FOR JOBS...
OR GOING TO PARTIES, CLUBS.
YEAH, I'VE BEEN
DISCRIMINATED DIFFERENT TIMES,
ON DIFFERENT OCCASIONS.
MAYBE BECAUSE SOMETIMES
THEY LOOK DOWN ON US,
AND I KNOW THAT
THEY DON'T REALLY TREAT US
AS GOOD AS ONE OF THEM.
WE'VE TRIED-- WE'RE TRYING.
WE'RE STILL TRYING...
TO FIT INTO THE SOCIETY.
BUT IF THEY'RE STILL
PUSHING US OUT,
WE'RE STILL
GONNA KEEP TRYING.
THERE'S NOTHING
WE CAN DO ABOUT IT.
YOU GROW UP WITH IT,
SO YOU COME TO ACCEPT IT.
AND IT'S JUST...
WATER OFF A DUCK'S BACK.
"ISLAMOPHOBIA,"
THIS IS A NEW TERM
THAT'S BEEN COINED
IN THE LAST FEW YEARS,
AND IT'S A TERM
THAT'S COME ABOUT
BECAUSE THERE HAS BEEN
A MARKED--
NOT JUST A MARKED INCREASE,
BUT CERTAINLY A MARKED INCIDENCE
OF MUSLIMS BEING DISCRIMINATED
AGAINST IN THE WORKPLACE
AND FOR NO OTHER REASON
OTHER THAN THEY ARE MUSLIM.
AS A BRITISH MUSLIM
I FEEL VERY PROUD
TO BE BRITISH AND MUSLIM.
THERE'S NO--
AS FAR AS I'M CONCERNED
THERE'S NO CONFLICT IN THAT.
WHAT IS A MATTER OF FACT,
THAT SINCE 11th OF SEPTEMBER
THERE HAS BEEN GREATER PRESSURE
ON THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY
TO COME OUT AND
OPPOSE AND CONDEMN TERRORISM,
AND TO PROVE THEMSELVES
TIME AND TIME AFTER
THAT WE ARE BRITISH AND
OUR LOYALTIES ARE WITH BRITAIN.
NARRATOR:
THE TERRORIST ATTACKS
ON NEW YORK CITY
ON SEPTEMBER 11th
PRECIPITATED A WORSENING
SITUATION IN RELATIONS
BETWEEN LONDON'S HALF A MILLION
MUSLIM POPULATION
AND ITS WHITE COUNTERPARTS.
GURBUX SINGH: WE ALSO SAW
SOME PRETTY DREADFUL REACTIONS
TO THE EVENTS FOLLOWING ON
FROM SEPTEMBER 11th.
ASSAULTS WERE MADE
AGAINST PEOPLE
SIMPLY BECAUSE
THEY LOOKED DIFFERENT.
PEOPLE WERE PHYSICALLY
ASSAULTED, I MEAN...
THERE ARE TOO MANY
SAD CASES OF--
AN AFGHAN TAXI DRIVER
HERE IN LONDON
WHO WAS BRUTALLY ATTACKED
AND WHO WAS THEN PARALYZED.
A 19-YEAR-OLD WOMAN IN SWINDON,
MERELY BECAUSE SHE WAS DRESSED
AS A MUSLIM WOMAN,
WAS ATTACKED BY WHITE YOUTHS
WITH BASEBALL BATS.
RACISM IS A PROBLEM
IN BRITAIN STILL.
BUT WHAT IS SURPRISING,
AND MOST PEOPLE DON'T KNOW THIS,
IS THAT ALTHOUGH RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION IS OUTLAWED,
IS PROHIBITED,
RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION
IS STILL PERMISSIBLE.
YES. SO YOU CAN BE SACKED,
DISMISSED FROM YOUR EMPLOYMENT,
BECAUSE OF YOUR RELIGION.
AND YOU HAVE NO RECOURSE TO LAW.
THAT IS LAWFUL DISCRIMINATION.
I LIVE IN THIS COUNTRY
FOR ABOUT 30 YEARS,
AND I CONSIDER THIS COUNTRY
AS MY OWN ONE,
AND I AM VERY MUCH
USED TO THIS SOCIETY--
USED TO LIVING IN THIS SOCIETY
IN THE SAME WAY
AS THE ENGLISH PEOPLE LIVE.
AND I... STILL, I KEEP
MY OWN IDENTITY AS A MUSLIM.
AND I COME TO PRAY IN HERE,
IN THIS MOSQUE,
EVERY FRIDAY
AND SOME OTHER DAYS AS WELL.
[MAN RECITING MUSLIM PRAYER]
NARRATOR:
IN ISLAM, RELIGION IS NOT,
AS IT IS IN CHRISTIANITY,
ONE SEGMENT OF LIFE
REGULATING SOME MATTERS
WHILE OTHERS ARE EXCLUDED.
IT IS CONCERNED
WITH THE WHOLE OF LIFE.
AS A PERSONAL RELIGIOUS FAITH,
ISLAM IS BOTH VERY ARDUOUS
AND VERY EASY TO PURSUE.
IT MAKES SEVERE DEMANDS
ON THE BELIEVER,
STOPPING EVERYTHING
TO PRAY FIVE TIMES A DAY,
FASTING FOR A MONTH
DURING RAMADAN.
BUT MUSLIMS
ARE NOT REQUIRED TO RUN
CHRISTIANITY'S NEVER-ENDING
SPIRITUAL OBSTACLE COURSE.
IT IS A FAITH OF CERTAINTIES,
NOT DOUBTS.
THERE ARE GOOD MUSLIMS
AND BAD MUSLIMS,
BUT THERE ARE NO
SKEPTICAL MUSLIMS.
ANYBODY CAN BE A MUSLIM.
I THINK, IN FACT,
WE DO FIND THAT, YOU KNOW,
THE MUSLIMS IN THE WEST ARE NOT
JUST THE ASIANS OR THE ARABS,
BUT THEY COME FROM
ALL WALKS OF LIFE,
AND ALL KINDS OF COMMUNITIES
AND BACKGROUNDS.
AND I THINK ALSO THAT THERE ARE
LOTS OF "NATIVE MUSLIMS,"
IF YOU LIKE,
WHO HAVE CONVERTED INTO ISLAM.
NARRATOR:
IF IT IS TRUE THAT ISLAM
IS PRIMARILY A WAY OF LIFE
HANDED DOWN IN RELIGIOUS LAWS,
A WAY OF LIFE
WHOSE AUTHORITY COMES FROM
THE UNDIMINISHED,
UNQUESTIONED WORD OF GOD,
MUSLIMS IN THE WEST
FACE A TOUGH FUTURE.
IF YOU ARE LOOKING AT
WESTERN VALUES
IN TERMS OF
RIDDING PUBLIC LIFE FROM
ANY CORRELATION TO SPIRITUALITY
OR ANY INVOLVEMENT OF GOD IN
YOUR POLITICAL DECISION-MAKING,
OR ECONOMIC DECISION-MAKING
OR SOCIAL LIFE,
THEN MAYBE THERE'S SOMETHING
HERE THAT'S A BIT OF A PROBLEM.
[SHOUTING]
NARRATOR: MANY LONDONERS
ARE BEGINNING TO WORRY
THAT THEIR CITY
IS BECOMING A BATTLEGROUND
OF THE WARRING IDEOLOGIES
OF MODERNIZATION
AND POLITICIZED ISLAM.
YOUNG MUSLIM FUNDAMENTALISTS
TRYING TO MOBILIZE
ISLAM'S RELIGIOUS YEARNING
FOR SALVATION
AND PROJECTING IT IN POLITICS,
ARE A COMMON SIGHT WITHIN
SEVERAL MOSQUES IN LONDON.
THE MOSQUES
HAVE MANY PIOUS BELIEVERS
WHO COME FOR PRAYERS
A FEW TIMES A DAY,
AND THEN HEAD BACK TO WORK
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT ALSO PRESENT IS A CORE
OF MOSTLY UNEMPLOYED YOUNG MEN
WHO SPEND THEIR DAYS
AT THE MOSQUE
CHANNELING THEIR FRUSTRATION
INTO POLITICS AND RELIGION.
THERE ARE MUSLIM GROUPS
THAT ARTICULATE
AN INTOLERANT AND
EXTREME FORM OF ISLAM,
AND THESE ARE GROUPS
WHO WILL NECESSARILY
EXPRESS SOME KIND OF
CONDEMNATION
OF THE WAY WESTERN SOCIETIES
ARE ORGANIZED
AND WILL ARGUE THAT ISLAM
CANNOT RESIDE HAPPILY
WITH EUROPEAN
OR WESTERN VALUES.
RACIAL CONFLICT,
PARTICULARLY RELIGIOUS
CONFLICT IN THIS COUNTRY,
HAS COME FROM MUSLIM AREAS,
HEAVILY MUSLIM AREAS,
AND THIS WAS PRETTY MUCH
THE CASE BEFORE SEPTEMBER 11th.
MUSLIMS IN THIS COUNTRY,
THE DESCENDANTS, THE YOUNG KIDS,
ARE FEELING THEY WANT
THEIR OWN IDENTITY NOW,
AND IT CAN BE QUITE AN
AGGRESSIVE WAY OF EXPRESSION.
AL-RASHID: THAT'S NOT TRUE.
THAT IS NOT TRUE.
YES, SOME PEOPLE TRY TO
BLAME THE ISLAMIC UPBRINGING
OR THE ISLAMIC EDUCATION.
THE TRUTH OF THE MATTER IS,
THESE BOYS--
AND MUSLIM ARE BOYS,
HAVE HAD VERY LITTLE
ISLAMIC EDUCATION,
OR VERY LITTLE
ISLAMIC UNDERSTANDING,
BECAUSE IF THEY HAD,
THEY WOULD NOT BEHAVE LIKE THAT.
WE FOUND THAT THE MEDIA WAS ONLY
INTERESTED IN NEGATIVE NEWS,
EVEN TODAY, AND IT WAS,
AND IT IS STILL, ISLAMOPHOBIC
IN THE WAY IT REPORTS
ABOUT MUSLIM ISSUES.
I'LL ILLUSTRATE
WITH AN EXAMPLE:
FOR INSTANCE, THERE'S A SMALL
GROUP CALLED AL-MUHAJIROUN.
THEY HAD A DIFFERENT VIEW
ON THE TERRORIST ATTACK,
AT LEAST THE WORLD TRADE CENTER.
WHILE OVERWHELMINGLY,
I MEAN, I THINK UNANIMOUSLY,
THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY
IN THIS COUNTRY,
WHO ARE TWO MILLION,
CONDEMNED THIS ATROCITY.
AND THE MEDIA,
RATHER THAN USING--
COVERING THE STORY WITH
THE MAJORITY OF THE MUSLIMS'
OR MOST OF THE MUSLIMS'
OPINION ON THIS ISSUE,
THEY ONLY TARGETED
THIS SMALL GROUP,
AND THEY GAVE THEM
SO MUCH PROMINENCE
AS IF THE WHOLE COMMUNITY
WAS SUPPORTING
WHAT HAPPENED IN NEW YORK.
I THINK THESE MUSLIM COMMUNITIES
AROUND THE WESTERN WORLD
HAVE A LOT TO LEARN
ABOUT WHAT THEY HAVE TO DO
TO PERSUADE
THE REST OF THE COMMUNITY
OF THEIR GOODWILL
TOWARD THEIR HOST COUNTRIES.
I CHOOSE MY WORDS WITH CARE
BECAUSE, FOR EXAMPLE,
TO POINT OUT THAT THE PRESS,
A FREE PRESS,
IS LIKELY TO ONLY RECORD THE
VIEWS OF THE YOUNG EXTREMISTS
IS NOTHING NEW.
WE ARE ALL AWARE OF HOW
THE PRESS REPORTS WHAT GOES ON.
WHAT THEY HAVE TO UNDERSTAND
IS THAT IF THEY WANT TO CHANGE
THE PERCEPTION OF THE COMMUNITY
AWAY FROM TWO OR THREE
SENIOR CLERICS
WHO SAY
VERY INFLAMMATORY THINGS,
AND AWAY FROM HALF A DOZEN
OR EVEN A COUPLE OF DOZEN
YOUNG MEN
WHO WANT TO GO OFF
AND FIGHT FOR AL-QAEDA,
IF THEY WANT TO CONCENTRATE ON
THE MAINSTREAM VALUES
OF THE COMMUNITY,
THEY MUST UNDERSTAND THAT
THIS IS A TWO-WAY PROCESS.
THEY MUST NOT SIMPLY
BLAME THE MEDIA.
NARRATOR: INTEGRATING
INTO A MULTICULTURAL LONDON
WILL REQUIRE MOVEMENT
BY ALL PARTIES.
AND IT COMES AT A TIME WHEN
PEOPLE IN MANY AREAS OF LONDON
HAVE RETREATED
BEHIND ETHNIC LINES.
DIVERSITY CAN BE
A SOURCE OF STRENGTH,
VITALITY AND PRIDE.
BUT IS THERE A CONTRADICTION
BETWEEN RETAINING
A DISTINCT CULTURAL IDENTITY
AND FEELING A SENSE
OF BELONGING IN BRITAIN?
NO, THERE IS NO CONTRADICTION.
THERE'S NO NEED FOR THAT.
YOU CAN FIND A BALANCE,
YOU'LL FIND A WAY.
NO, I COULD NEVER BECOME
BRITISH. I'M AFRICAN.
AFTER TWO OR THREE GENERATIONS
THEIR CHILDREN SHOULD BE
INTEGRATED TOTALLY
WITHIN THE SOCIETY
WHERE THEY HAVE DECIDED TO LIVE.
FOR THE KIDS
IT WILL BE DIFFICULT
BECAUSE THEY WILL HAVE TO
TRY AND IDENTIFY THEMSELVES
WITH BEING ENGLISH.
YOU ABIDE BY BRITISH WAYS,
BUT YOU CAN'T BECOME THAT.
IT'S LIKE, HOW CAN A LIZARD
BECOME A SNAKE?
I WAS BROUGHT UP
IN A TOTALLY BRITISH WAY.
TOTALLY ENGLISH.
NO FOREIGN OR NO--
DIDN'T HAVE ANY INFLUENCES FROM
EITHER PARENT, IN ACTUAL FACT,
AND MOST CERTAINLY NOT
FROM MY MOTHER,
WHICH SHE'S
FAIRLY UPSET ABOUT.
* LET ME TELL YOU
'BOUT A GIRL I KNOW
* SHE'S MY BABY
AND SHE LIVES NEXT DOOR
* EVERY MORNING
'FORE THE SUN COMES UP
* SHE BRING MY COFFEE
IN MY FAVORITE CUP
* THAT'S WHY I KNOW
YES, I KNOW
* HALLELUJAH
I JUST LOVE HER SO
* WHEN I'M IN TROUBLE
AND I HAVE NO FRIEND
* I KNOW SHE'LL GO WITH ME
UNTIL THE END
* EVERYBODY ASKS ME
HOW I KNOW
* I SMILE AT THEM AND SAY
SHE TOLD ME SO
* THAT'S WHY I KNOW
YES, I KNOW
* HALLELUJAH
I JUST LOVE HER SO
* IF I CALL HER
ON THE TELEPHONE
* AND I TELL HER
THAT I'M ALL ALONE
* BY THE TIME I COUNT
FROM ONE TO FOUR
* I HEAR HER
ON MY DOOR
* IN THE EVENING
WHEN THE SUN GOES DOWN
* I SAY HALLELUJAH
* I JUST LOVE THAT WOMAN SO
[MUSIC ENDS]
[SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
DO YOU THINK
THAT THE IMMIGRANTS
ARE ALSO CHANGING
THE FACE OF LONDON?
I'M AFRAID SO.
NO. LONDON'S ALWAYS
BEEN COSMOPOLITAN.
AND WHY NOT?
IT HAS ENOUGH ROOM
FOR EVERYBODY.
I THINK THEY ENHANCE US
IN MANY WAYS, YOU KNOW?
AND I THINK THE MORE CULTURES
YOU GET, THE BETTER IT IS.
LONDON IS AN OPEN CITY.
IT IS A CITY OF TOLERANCE,
OF LOVE AND OF PEACE.
NARRATOR:
MANY LONDONERS WOULD DISAGREE
WITH THIS CHEERFUL ASSESSMENT
OF THEIR CITY.
BUT WITHOUT A DOUBT,
MOST OF THEM
WOULD AGREE WITH THE STATEMENT
THAT LONDON TODAY
IS TRULY MULTICULTURAL.
BEHIND THE VOGUE
FOR CULTURAL DIVERSITY
IS THE GREATER AVAILABILITY
OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES
IMPORTED FROM AROUND THE WORLD.
MANY LONDON GROCERS
RECEIVE FRESH AIR FREIGHT
AT LEAST FOUR TIMES A WEEK.
THIS TREND REFLECTS
NOT ONLY THE INFUSION
OF NEW ETHNICITIES
BUT A DRAMATIC CHANGE
IN WHAT LONDONERS
CONSIDER THEIR NATIONAL DISH.
OUR GREATEST DISH NOW,
AFTER ROAST BEEF
AND YORKSHIRE PUDDING,
IS ACTUALLY THE CURRY.
I THINK IT CHANGES.
I THINK WE GET
FLAVOR OF THE MONTH.
AT THE MOMENT
I THINK THAI CUISINE IS IN.
CURRY IS BRITISH NATIONAL DISH.
AND CHICKEN TIKKA MASALA
IS ESPECIALLY MADE IN BRITAIN,
SO THIS ONE
IS NOT IN INDIA EITHER.
WE LOVE IT.
WE LOVE CURRY.
I COULD EAT CURRY EVERY DAY.
FOR BREAKFAST, FOR DINNER,
FOR LUNCH.
NARRATOR:
DEFINITELY GUARANTEED.
FOR LONDONERS TODAY,
CURRY IS THEIR NATIONAL DISH.
AND TO SATISFY A HUGE
APPETITE FOR THE SPICY TREAT,
JUST IN "BANGLATOWN,"
THE HEART OF LONDON'S
BANGLADESHI COMMUNITY,
WE FIND MORE THAN
100 CURRY RESTAURANTS.
BUT IN LONDON, YOU CAN
EAT YOUR WAY AROUND THE WORLD.
YOU CAN GO TO DIFFERENT
COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD,
BUT YOU CAN ONLY GET CERTAIN--
PROBABLY THEIR CUISINE.
BUT IF YOU COME TO LONDON,
YOU CAN GET EVERYBODY'S CUISINE.
AND IT'S A MULTICULTURAL MIX.
HUSSAIN: I'M STARTING
A RESTAURANT SCHOOL FOR CHEFS.
BUT I'M ALREADY TRAINING PEOPLE
EVERY MONDAY TO KNOW HOW
TO MAKE INDIAN CURRY.
JUST BRITISH LOCAL PEOPLE
OR EVEN INDIANS COME HERE
AND LEARN HOW TO MAKE
LESS FAT CURRY.
AND WE USE BRITISH...
EVERYTHING.
VEGETARIAN,
CHICKEN AND THE MEAT.
SO THIS IS BRITISH CURRY.
SINGH: I'M A HUGE SUPPORTER
OF MULTICULTURALISM.
DIFFERENT CULTURES COMING
TOGETHER, ENRICHING SOCIETY,
WITH NOBODY SAYING,
"THIS IS THE DOMINANT CULTURE."
AND NOBODY SAYING,
"THIS IS WHAT WE WILL DICTATE
"ON OTHER PEOPLE."
IT'S ENABLING PEOPLE
TO DO THEIR OWN THING,
BUT SEEING THEMSELVES
AS PART OF BRITAIN.
THAT IS MY VISION
OF MULTICULTURALISM.
MY FATHER'S GREEK,
MY MOTHER'S ENGLISH,
AND IF YOU SIT DOWN
AND TALK TO PEOPLE,
YOU-- AUTOMATICALLY,
YOU GET COMMON GROUND,
WHERE THE PERSON
YOU'RE TALKING TO SAYS,
"OH, I'M HALF INDIAN
AND HALF ENGLISH,"
OR HALF THIS OR HALF THAT.
I DON'T THINK YOU ACTUALLY
GET MANY PEOPLE IN LONDON,
OR WHO WORK IN LONDON, WHO
ARE ACTUALLY ONE NATIONALITY.
YOU HAVE SO MANY MIXTURES.
WHO'S A LONDONER NOW?
I SUSPECT IF
YOU LOOKED AT YOUNG PEOPLE,
IT MIGHT WELL BE SOMEBODY
WHO WAS NOT ACTUALLY--
WHOSE FAMILY WERE NOT BORN
IN THE UNITED KINGDOM,
WHO DIDN'T COME
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM
UNTIL THE LAST 50 YEARS.
DOES THAT MAKE ME
ANY LESS A LONDONER?
BOTH:
HELLO! WELCOME TO LONDON!
WELCOME TO LONDON.
BOTH:
WELCOME TO LONDON, MATE.
WELCOME TO LONDON.
ENJOY YOURSELF.
BOTH: WELCOME TO LONDON.
YOU HAVE A NICE STAY HERE.
I HOPE YOU'LL ENJOY YOUR STAY.
WELCOME TO LONDON.
I'M SORRY ABOUT THE WEATHER.
[ALL SPEAK
IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
CAPTIONS: BROADCAST TEXT
WWW.BROADCASTTEXT.COM